# OKTA_AWS_LOGIN V2
A CLI tool that uses SAML assertions generated by Okta's IdP portal to obtain temporary AWS CLI credentials via AWS STS.

Originally written by Joe Keegan - <joe@nimbusscale.com>

Updated by Benjamin Knauss - <racter@racter.com>

This software is distributed under the MIT license. Please see the file LICENSE.txt for terms of use and redistribution. 

Based off https://github.com/nimbusscale/okta_aws_login


# DESCRIPTION
The okta_aws_login tool, written in Python 3, was developed to help solve the issue of needing to generate and store 
long lived AWS Access and Secret Keys on systems to be able to utilize AWS's CLI tools.

Okta is a leading Identity Provider and is often used by organizations to federate user credentials and provide 
Single Sign On access to the AWS console. While using Okta resolves the issue of providing federated access to the 
AWS console it does not provide an "out-of-the-box" solution for federated access when using AWS's CLI tools.

The okta_aws_login tool will prompt the user for the necessary credentials needed to authenticate with the Okta IdP 
and then utilize the SAML assertion generation by Okta to retrieve temporary AWS Access and Secret Keys and an AWS 
Session Token. The AWS credentials will then be written to the local AWS credentials file to be utilized by aws cli.

okta_aws_login.py supports both password only and Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). The following MFA options are 
supported:

* Okta Verify 
* Google Authenticator 
* SMS Authentication 

# Improvements over V1

* Multiple Account Support
* Multiple Role Support
* Username is provided as a default
* Role is selectable via command line

# CONFIGURATION
Before running okta_aws_login you must create a configuration file, this file is 
expected to be named "~/.aws/okta" and must follow the format: 
    

[dev]
provider_url  = https://mycompany.okta.com/home/amazon_aws/0oa18v5lxcd1X3pDr1e8/272
region        = us-west-2

[qa]
provider_url  = https://mycompany.okta.com/home/amazon_aws/0oa18v5lxcd1X3pDr1e8/273
region        = us-west-2

[prod]
provider_url  = https://mycompany.okta.com/home/amazon_aws/0oa18v5lxcd1X3pDr1e8/276
region        = us-west-2

...

    
    okta_aws_login.py --configure 

A configuration wizard will prompt you to enter the necessary configuration parameters for the tool to run.

The configuration wizard will ask for the following parameters. 

* provider_url - You must enter the URL for the AWS app within Okta that is configured to provide access to AWS with 
the desired role. This is the EMBED LINK URL found on the General tab of the Okta AWS App. Access to this link is only
available to an Okta user with admin rights. If you are not an admin then you will need to have an admin provide you the URL.

* region - This will be AWS region included in the AWS CLI profile created by okta_aws_login.


# USAGE
The simplest usage is to just call okta_aws_login.py from the command line. You will be prompted for the necessary 
credentials, including MFA credentials.

    $ okta_aws_login.py -p prod
    Okta AWS Authentication Tool
    Username [bobdole]: bobdole
    Password for bobdole: ********
    Enter your Okta Verify code: 123456

Once okta_aws_login.py successfully runs, your Okta session ID will be cached and will be used 
to retrieve future temporary AWS credentials. The temporary AWS credentials will typically expired in 60 minutes, while
an Okta session will, by default, expire after 120 minutes of inactivity. Simply running to tool again at any time 
before the Okta session expires will refresh your AWS credentials and extend their life for another 60 minutes. 
Since the session ID is used for authentication you will not be prompted for credentials by okta_aws_login.py.

The Okta username can be specified in two other ways, one is via a command line argument using the --username option 
or by setting the username in the OKTA_USERNAME environment variable.

Additional options exist and others may be added in the future. Running `okta_aws_login.py --help` will show you all the
options.

# Other Resources
Additional details and examples can be found at this blog post - [AWS User Federation with Okta – Part 3: CLI Access](http://blog.nimbusscale.com/2015/10/20/aws-user-federation-with-okta-part-3-cli-access/).

# Thanks
Thanks to Joe Keegan for V1 of this script

Thanks to Quint Van Deman who published [the blog post](http://blogs.aws.amazon.com/security/post/TxU0AVUS9J00FP/How-to-Implement-a-General-Solution-for-Federated-API-CLI-Access-Using-SAML-2-0) "How to Implement a General Solution for Federated 
API/CLI Access Using SAML 2.0". Without his example code the development of okta_aws_login.py would have been way more difficult.

